\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename hello.info
@include version.texi
@settitle GNU Hello @value{VERSION}
@c %**end of header

@copying
This manual is for GNU Hello (version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}),
which prints a friendly greeting (and serves as an example GNU package).

Copyright @copyright{} 1992, 1993, 1996, 2002, 2005, 2006 Free
Software Foundation, Inc.

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, with the Front-Cover Texts being ``A GNU Manual,''
and with the Back-Cover Texts as in (a) below.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled ``GNU Free Documentation
License.''

(a) The FSF's Back-Cover Text is: ``You have freedom to copy and modify
this GNU Manual, like GNU software.  Copies published by the Free
Software Foundation raise funds for GNU development.''
@end quotation
@end copying

@c Define a new index for options.
@defcodeindex op
@c Combine everything into one index (arbitrarily chosen to be the
@c concept index).
@syncodeindex op cp

@dircategory Basics
@direntry
* Hello: (hello).               Hello, GNU world.
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title GNU Hello
@subtitle for version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}
@author GNU Hello Developers (@email{bug-hello@@gnu.org})
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents


@ifnottex
@node Top
@top GNU Hello

This manual is for GNU Hello (version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}).
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::		General purpose and information.
* Sample::		Sample output from @code{hello}.
* Invoking hello::	How to run @code{hello}.
* Problems::		Reporting bugs.
* Copying This Manual:: Copying and sharing this documentation.
* Concept Index::	Index of concepts.
@end menu


@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@cindex greetings
@cindex overview

The GNU @code{hello} program produces a familiar, friendly greeting.
It allows nonprogrammers to use a classic computer science tool which
would otherwise be unavailable to them.  Because it is protected by
the GNU General Public License, users are free (in perpetuity) to
share and change it.

For the latest updates and other information, please visit the GNU
Hello home page at @url{http://www.gnu.org/software/hello}.

@cindex joke, not
Not to spoil the joke, but of course the practical purpose of GNU
Hello is to serve as a minimal example of a GNU package.  So, although
most manuals don't need to discuss the implementation of the programs
they document, that is part of the goal here.

@cindex GNU coding standards
@cindex GNU maintainer standards
@cindex standards, GNU coding
@cindex standards, GNU maintainer
First, GNU Hello follows the GNU coding standards
(@pxref{Top,,Preface,standards, GNU Coding Standards}) and GNU
maintainer standards (@pxref{Top,,Preface,maintain, Information for
GNU Maintainers}).  These are the basic documents which all GNU
packages should adhere to.

The Hello package also implements recommended development practices
not embodied in the standards, using other GNU packages and features:

@itemize @bullet

@item
@cindex Automake
@cindex Autoconf
It uses Automake (@pxref{Top,,Introduction,Automake,GNU Automake}) and
hence also Autoconf (@pxref{Top,,Introduction,Autoconf,GNU Autoconf})
for configuration.

@item
@cindex Gnulib
It uses Gnulib (@pxref{Top,,Gnulib,gnulib,GNU gnulib}) to enhance
portability and avoid duplication of common sources.

@item
@cindex Gettext
GNU Gettext (@pxref{Top,,Introduction,gettext,GNU Gettext}) is used
for internationalization support.  Hello's greeting has been translated
into many languages.

@item
@opindex --help
Internally, Hello uses the GNU @code{getopt_long} function
(@pxref{Getopt Long Options,,,libc,GNU C Library}) to parse options,
thus supporting GNU-style long options such as @option{--help}.

@item
@cindex Help2man
Man pages are generated with GNU @code{help2man}
(@pxref{Top,,Overview,help2man,GNU @code{help2man}}) from the
@option{--help} output.  This relieves the maintainers of the burden
of maintaining man documentation separately, yet provides a reasonable
overview for man devotees.

@item
@cindex Texinfo
Finally, Texinfo (@pxref{Top,,Introduction,texinfo,Texinfo}) is the
documentation format for this manual.  It supports output in Info,
HTML, PDF, DVI, plain text, XML, and other formats.

@end itemize

GNU Hello is implemented in C.  GNU Gettext contains ``hello world''
examples in a variety of other programming languages; see the Gettext
home page at @url{http://www.gnu.org/software/gettext}.

@cindex authors
@cindex Haertel, Mike
@cindex MacKenzie, David
@cindex Brittenson, Jan
@cindex Hannum, Charles
@cindex McGrath, Roland
@cindex Friedman, Noah
@cindex Eichwalder, Karl
@cindex King, The
@cindex Berry, Karl
GNU @code{hello} was written by Mike Haertel, David MacKenzie, Jan
Brittenson, Charles Hannum, Roland McGrath, Noah Friedman, Karl
Eichwalder, Karl Berry, and @w{The King}.


@node Sample
@chapter Sample Output

@cindex sample output
@cindex examples

Here are some realistic examples of running GNU @code{hello}.

This is the output of the command @samp{hello}:

@example
Hello, world!
@end example

This is the output of the command @samp{hello --traditional}:

@example
hello, world
@end example

@cindex help output
This is the output of the command @samp{hello --help}:

@example
GNU hello, THE greeting printing program.

Usage: hello [OPTION]...

  -h, --help          display this help and exit
  -v, --version       display version information and exit

  -t, --traditional       use traditional greeting format
  -n, --next-generation   use next-generation greeting format
  -g, --greeting=TEXT     use TEXT as the greeting message

Report bugs to bug-hello@@gnu.org.
@end example

@cindex environment variables
For the @option{--help} output of GNU programs, it's strongly
encouraged to include a brief (one or two sentences) description of
what the program does, as well as the synopsis of how to run the
program.  Any environment variables which affect execution should also
be mentioned (Hello doesn't have any).


@node Invoking hello
@chapter Invoking @code{hello}

@cindex invoking
@cindex options
@cindex usage
@cindex help

The format for running the @code{hello} program is:

@example
hello @var{option} @dots{}
@end example

@code{hello} supports the following options:

@table @option
@item --greeting=@var{text}
@itemx -g @var{text}
@opindex --greeting
@opindex -g
Output @var{text}.

@item --help
@itemx -h
@opindex --help
@opindex -h
Print an informative help message on standard output and exit
successfully.

@item --next-generation
@itemx -n
@opindex --next-generation
@opindex -n
@cindex Unicode
@cindex UTF-8
Output a modern greeting, possibly including box-drawing
characters or other fancy stuff, using the Unicode UTF-8 locale.

@item --traditional
@itemx -t
@opindex --traditional
@opindex -t
@cindex traditional
@cindex modern
Use the traditional greeting message @samp{hello, world} rather 
than the more modern @samp{Hello, world!}.

@item --version
@itemx -v
@opindex --version
@opindex -v
Print the version number of @code{hello} on standard output
and then exit successfully.

@end table


@node Problems
@chapter Reporting Bugs

@cindex bug reporting
@cindex problems
@cindex reporting bugs

To report bugs or suggest enhancements for GNU @code{hello}, please
send electronic mail to @email{bug-hello@@gnu.org}.

@cindex checklist for bug reports
For bug reports, please include enough information for the maintainers
to reproduce the problem.  Generally speaking, that means:

@itemize @bullet
@item The version number of Hello (which you can find by running
      @w{@samp{hello --version}}) and any other program(s) or
      manual(s) involved.
@item Hardware and operating system names and versions.
@item The contents of any input files necessary to reproduce the bug.
@item The expected behavior and/or output.
@item A description of the problem and samples of any erroneous output.
@item Any unusual options you gave to @command{configure}.
@item Anything else that you think would be helpful.
@end itemize

When in doubt whether something is needed or not, include it.  It's
better to include too much than to leave out something important.

@cindex patches, contributing
Patches are welcome; if possible, please make them with @samp{@w{diff
-c}} (@pxref{Top,, Overview, diff, Comparing and Merging Files}) and
include @file{ChangeLog} entries (@pxref{Change Log,,, emacs, The GNU
Emacs Manual}).  Please follow the existing coding style.


@node Copying This Manual
@appendix Copying This Manual

@menu
* GNU Free Documentation License::  License for copying this manual.
@end menu

@include fdl.texi


@node Concept Index
@unnumbered Concept Index

@cindex tail recursion
@printindex cp

@bye
